7

Heat Transfer
in Nature

Pema and her brother Palden reside in Gangtok. On a cold winter
evening, they are sitting around a ﬁreplace. Palden shares his
experiences of visiting Kerala during the winter vacation. He
says that compared to Gangtok, winter in Kerala is comparatively
warm and humid. Both Pema and Palden are curious about why
some places are so cold and others quite hot.
Hearing them express their curiosity, their grandfather, a
retired science teacher, says, “Kerala is closer to the equator than
Sikkim and it also has a long coastline, which results in warmer
and more humid weather conditions”. Palden replies, “Yes, we
learnt in Grade 6 Science and Social Science that for us on the
Earth, the Sun is the main source of heat and light, and around
the equator, the climate is generally hot”.
As they are talking, Pema is keenly observing her grandmother
cooking thukpa (a traditional Sikkimese dish) in a large metal
pan. Pema asks, “Why are cooking utensils generally made of
metals?” Palden immediately responds that they had studied
in the chapter ‘The World of Metals and Non-metals’ that such
materials are good conductors of heat.



How does heat get
transferred in these
materials?

Let us perform an activity to learn why certain materials are
good conductors of heat.

7.1 Conduction of Heat
Activity 7.1: Let us experiment
Caution — This activity should be carried out under the supervision of
a teacher or an adult.
Stand

Pin

Metal
strip

Curiosity | Textbook of Science | Grade 7

Burning
candle

Fig. 7.1: Heat transfer in a metal strip

 Take a strip of a metal, such as aluminium
or iron, about 15 cm long.
 Attach four pins to the strip with the help
of wax such that they are arranged at
nearly equal distances (about 2 cm apart),
as shown in Fig. 7.1.
 Secure the strip to a stand and label the
pins as I, II, III, and IV, as shown in Fig. 7.1.
(If a stand is not available, place the strip
between two bricks for support.)
 Heat the end of the strip that is away from
the stand with a candle or a spirit lamp.

 What will happen to the pins? Will they remain attached to
the strip or will they fall?
 Predict the order in which the pins will fall from the strip.
 Record your observations in Table 7.1.
Table 7.1: Falling of pins
Pin falling ﬁrst
Prediction

Observation

Reasons for what you
observed

You observed that the pin closest to the candle ﬂame (pin I)
falls ﬁrst, followed by pins II, III, and IV. Why does pin I fall before
pin II? Why did all the pins not fall together?
From your observations, what can you infer? Do you think
that heat is being transferred along the metal strip from the
end that is being heated? As the heat travels along the strip and
approaches a pin, the wax holding it melts and the pin falls. Here,
the transfer of heat takes place from the hot end of the strip to the
colder end. The process of heat transfer from the hotter part of
an object to the colder part is called conduction. In this process,
the particle that gets heated, passes the heat on to its neighbour,
and so on. However, the particles themselves do not move from
their positions.
Materials like metals that allow heat to pass through them
easily are called good conductors of heat. Because metals are
good conductors of heat, we use utensils made of metals for
cooking. In solids, heat transfer takes place mainly through the
process of conduction.
If we use a strip made of a material like wood or glass in place
of a metal strip to perform Activity 7.1, the pins will not fall. Can
you think of the reason for this based on our learning from the
chapter ‘The World of Metals and Non-Metals’?
Materials such as glass and wood do not
allow heat to pass through them easily and Now, I know, why we
are poor conductors (insulators) of heat. generally use metal
Clay and porcelain are also poor conductors utensils for cooking,
of heat — that is why tea or coﬀee kept in whereas we prefer clay
and porcelain cups for
such cups stays hot longer.
drinking tea or coﬀee.
List some materials around you and
classify them as good or poor conductors
of heat in Table 7.2.

Heat Transfer in Nature

91

Table 7.2: List of good or poor conductors of heat
S.No.

Material

1.

Steel

2.

Wood

Good or Poor conductor of heat
Good conductor

3.

Does your list include air? If it is there on the list, where have
you placed it?
You must have experienced that during winters, we prefer
wearing woollen clothes to keep ourselves warm.

Woollen fabric traps air in its pores
and as air is a poor conductor of heat,
it reduces heat ﬂow from our bodies to
Air
our surroundings. As a result, we feel
warm. Similarly, air trapped between
the layers of clothing acts as a poor
conductor of heat and keeps us warm.
The presence of air between two thin
blankets is the reason why we prefer
them over one thick blanket to keep
Fig. 7.2: Air trapped between two thin blankets
us warm (Fig. 7.2).
acts as an insulator
Is it possible to construct houses that are not aﬀected much
by the outside heat and cold? Houses constructed in places with
a very hot or cold climate often use the concept of heat transfer
to keep them cool or warm.


The upper regions of the Himalayas, such as the Mori block of Uttarkashi
in Uttarakhand, experience an extremely cold climate and heavy
snowfall during winters. Houses here are often built to stay warm
during winters, with walls made of two wooden layers ﬁlled with cow
dung and mud between them. As wood and mud are poor conductors
of heat, they prevent heat loss and help in keeping the houses warm.

There are houses with outer walls that are constructed using
hollow bricks that keep them warm in winters and cool in
summers. This happens because the air that gets trapped in the
hollow bricks is a poor conductor of heat.
Pema draws Palden’s attention to the
Why is the smoke
rising smoke from the burning ﬁrewood,
going up?
around which they are sitting.

7.2 Convection
To understand why smoke rises, let us perform an activity.
Wooden
stick

Activity 7.2: Let us investigate
 Take two identical paper cups.

Thread
Paper
cup
Fig. 7.3(a): Initial set-up

 Hang them using threads of equal length in
an inverted position on the two ends of a
wooden stick, as shown in Fig. 7.3a.

 Place a burning candle below one of
the cups (Fig. 7.3b).

Heat Transfer in Nature

Wooden
stick

 Now, adjust the positions of the cups,
so that the stick is horizontal.

Thread
Paper cup

 Observe what happens to the cup.
 Record your observations in Table 7.3
and think of probable reasons.

93

Burning
candle
Fig. 7.3(b): Hot air rising up

Table 7.3: Recording observations and probable reasons
Observation about the cups

Probable reasons for the observation

You observed that the cup under which the candle
was placed, rises up (Fig. 7.3b). Why is it so? The air
around the candle ﬂame heats up. As the air in the
cup warms up, it expands and occupies more space.
As a result, it becomes lighter and rises up.
You can experience the expansion of air on
heating it by placing a partially inﬂated balloon in
the Sun (Fig. 7.4). After the air in the balloon gets
heated, it expands and the balloon becomes larger.
Fig. 7.4: An inﬂated
You must have observed that when an incense
balloon in the Sun
stick (agarbatti) is burnt, smoke rises up. Smoke is a
mixture of hot gases and tiny solid particles that are released
when something burns. As it is warmer than the surrounding air,
it rises up.
Let us ﬁnd out how heat transfer How does heat transfer
takes place in liquids by performing take place in liquids?
Do liquids also rise up
the following activity.

Inﬂated
balloon

when heated like air?

Activity 7.3: Let us ﬁnd out
Caution — This activity should be carried out under the supervision of
a teacher or an adult.

 Take a 500 mL beaker, half-ﬁlled with water as shown in
Fig. 7.5a.
 With the help of a straw, place a grain of potassium
permanganate at the centre of the beaker’s base (Fig. 7.5a).
 Place a candle right below the centre of the base of the beaker.

Chapter 7.indd 93

4/3/2025 4:53:59 PM

 Observe the movement of the coloured streak in the
water.

Straw

 As you supply heat, a streak of colour starts moving
up and then coming down from the sides (Fig. 7.5b).

Beaker
Water

Why does the streak of coloured water go up in the
middle and come down from the sides? The water at the
Candle
bottom of the beaker gets heated up and becomes hot.
It expands, becomes lighter, and rises. The water on the
sides of the beaker is comparatively cooler and heavier,
Fig. 7.5(a): Initial set-up
for demonstration
and comes down to take the place of the rising water.
Then, this water gets heated and in turn also rises.
This cycle continues until the entire volume of water
gets
heated. In this case, the entire volume of water gets
Coloured
streak
heated through the actual movement of water particles.
This process of heat transfer is known as convection. It
is because of convection that we see the movement of the
Burning
coloured streak inside the beaker.
candle
Thus, we can conclude that water, like air, gets heated
up by the process of convection. Here, heat transfer takes
place by the actual movement of particles of liquids and
Fig. 7.5(b): Demonstration of
convection in heated water gases from one place to another.
Tripod
stand

Curiosity | Textbook of Science | Grade 7

7.2.1 Land and Sea Breeze

94

Palden shares his experience of visiting a beach in Kerala during
winter vacation and says, “During the day, the sand or soil near
the beach is hotter than the water in the sea. However, at night,
the sand or soil is cooler than the water.” Pema replies, “Yes,
diﬀerent objects get heated and cooled diﬀerently.”
Let us check how land and water get heated and cooled by
performing an activity.

Activity 7.4: Let us investigate
Caution — This activity should be carried out on a clear,
sunny day under the supervision of a teacher or an adult.
Stand
Thermometer
Soil

Water

Fig. 7.6: Measurement of the
temperature of soil and water

Chapter 7.indd 94

 Take two identical bowls as shown in Fig. 7.6.
 Fill one bowl halfway with soil and the other bowl
halfway with water.
 Fix a laboratory thermometer in each bowl as
shown in Fig. 7.6. Make sure that the bulbs of the
thermometer are immersed in soil and water, and
do not touch the bottoms or the sides of the bowls.
 Place the set-up in sunlight.

4/3/2025 4:54:01 PM

95

Heat Transfer in Nature

 Measure the temperature of soil and water every 5 minutes
and record the data in Table 7.4.
Table 7.4: Temperature of soil and water when heated
S.No.

Time (min)

1.

0

2.

5

3.

10

4.

15

5.

20

Temperature of
soil (°C)

Temperature of
water (°C)

 Study the rise in temperature of soil and water.
 Did the temperature rise by the same amount for both the
soil and the water at the same time?
 If not, which one got heated faster?
 How much was the rise in temperature of the soil and the
water in 20 minutes?
After 20 minutes, you will ﬁnd that the temperature of the
soil rises more than that of the water. This indicates that the soil
heats up faster than water.
Does the soil also cool faster than water? After letting the soil
and water get heated, bring the set-up indoors and let it cool for
20 minutes. You will observe that
the soil cools faster than water,
Warm air
just as it gets heated faster.
People living in coastal
areas experience an interesting
phenomenon caused by the
heating and cooling of land and
water at diﬀerent rates. As the
Warmer
land gets heated faster than water
Cool sea breeze land
during the day, it causes warm
Cooler sea
air above the land to rise. This
causes cooler air to move from
the sea towards the land. This
movement of cooler air from the
Fig. 7.7(a): Sea breeze
sea to the land is called sea breeze
(Fig. 7.7a). Hence, in hot places, sea breeze relieves people from
the heat. That is why, windows of the houses in coastal areas are
placed facing the sea.

Chapter 7.indd 95

4/3/2025 4:54:01 PM

Warm air

Cooler
land

Warmer sea
Cool land
breeze

Fig. 7.7(b): Land breeze

At night, the process
reverses. In the absence of
sunlight, land cools down
faster than the water in the
sea. As a result, the air above
the sea is warmer and rises
up. Cooler air from the land
then moves towards the
sea, creating a land breeze
(Fig. 7.7b).
Thus, people living near
the seashore experience that
the direction of the wind
reverses in the day and night.

Curiosity | Textbook of Science | Grade 7

7.3 Radiation
Do you remember when Pema and Palden were sitting around
the ﬁreplace? They felt warm.
Their grandfather tells them that the
I wonder how heat transfer, in this case, takes place
heat from the directly from the ﬁre (hot object) to us by a
ﬁre reaches us?
process known as radiation. The heat of the
Sun reaches us through this process. Heat
transfer by radiation does not require any medium.
All objects radiate heat. You must have observed that a hot
utensil kept away from the ﬂame cools down after some time.
What is the reason for it? The hot utensil cools down by radiating
heat to its surroundings.

EEPER
DIVE

Why is it more comfortable to wear white or light-coloured
clothes during summers and dark-coloured clothes during
winters?
Light-coloured clothes reﬂect most of the heat that falls on
them, and therefore, we feel more comfortable wearing
them during summers. Dark surfaces, on the other hand,
absorb more heat, and therefore, we feel more comfortable
with dark-coloured clothes during winters.

96

Chapter 7.indd 96

4/3/2025 4:54:03 PM

There are many examples in our daily life, where we can
observe conduction, convection, and radiation happening
together.
Consider the case of water being heated up, as
shown in Fig. 7.8. Let us identify the various ways in
which the pan and the water get heated up, as well
as the warmth we feel around the ﬂame and the hot
pan. Heat is transferred from the ﬂame to the utensil
by conduction. Subsequently, water in the utensil
gets heated up by convection. The warmth that we
Fig. 7.8: Heating water in a pan
feel around the ﬂame and the hot utensil is due to
radiation.
Let us wrap up!
From the activities, examples, and discussions so far, we ﬁnd that
there are three processes by which heat gets transferred. These
are conduction, convection, and radiation.
 In conduction, heating takes place when one particle receives
heat, transfers heat to the next particle in contact, and so
on. The particles themselves do not move away from their
positions.
 In convection, heat transfer takes place by the actual
movement of particles.
 Note that in conduction and convection, a medium must be
present whose particles help in the transfer of heat.
 In the case of radiation, heat travels from one place to
another and no material medium is required for its transfer.

Heat Transfer in Nature

97

FASCINATING FACTS

In the upper reaches of the Himalayan
region, a traditional room heater locally
known as bukhari is used to keep rooms
warm during winters. It consists of an iron
stove in which wood or charcoal is burnt.
A long pipe attached to the upper part of
the heater serves as a chimney, venting
out the smoke. Additionally, the bukhari
can be used for cooking, as its ﬂat top
provides a platform for placing utensils.
All the three processes of heat transfer
are involved when this device is used for
cooking and warming up the room.

Chapter 7.indd 97

Bukhari

4/3/2025 4:54:04 PM

You have learnt in the Grade 6 Science textbook Curiosity, that
the Sun is the main source of heat for the Earth. You have seen
your parents drying wet clothes on the clothesline at home. Wet
clothes dry faster on a sunny day since the heat from the Sun
makes the evaporation of water faster.
Thus, heat from the Sun plays an important role in the
evaporation of water, be it from clothes drying on a line or from
water bodies like oceans and lakes. Let us look at the phenomenon
of water cycle to understand this in more detail.

7.4 Water Cycle

Curiosity | Textbook of Science | Grade 7

Sun

98

Chapter 7.indd 98

You have also learnt in the Grade 6 Science textbook Curiosity,
that water exists in three states in nature. As a liquid, it ﬁlls
the oceans, rivers, and lakes on the Earth. As a solid, it forms
snow, ice sheets, and glaciers in the mountains and the polar
regions. As a gas, it exists in the form of water vapour in the
Earth’s atmosphere. During summers, some of the snow and
ice gets converted to water due to the Sun’s radiation and ﬂows
down as rivers, and ultimately into the oceans. The melted ice is
replenished by fresh snow during winters.
Water in the oceans,
rivers, and lakes gets
heated due to the Sun, and
as a result, it evaporates
Precipitation
as water vapour. Water
Condensation
also evaporates from
trees and plants through
transpiration.
Transpiration
When water vapour
Evaporation
rises up, it cools down
and condenses to form
clouds. Clouds bring
rain, snow, and hail.
This process is called
precipitation.
Fig. 7.9: Water cycle
The continuous movement of water — upward as water vapour
and downward through precipitation, passing through soil, rocks,
and plants, and ﬁnally returning to water bodies, is called water
cycle (Fig. 7.9). Thus, the water cycle helps in redistributing and
replenishing water in rivers, lakes, and oceans. It also serves to
conserve the total amount of water on the Earth. Rainwater that
falls on the surface of the Earth, ﬂows into ponds, lakes, rivers,
and oceans or seeps into the ground.



99
KNOW A SCIENTIST

You may have seen people drawing water
from wells or handpumps. This is the water that
has seeped into the ground.
Let us understand how water seeps through
the surface of the earth by performing an activity.

Heat Transfer in Nature

Varahamihira was an astronomer and mathematician of the
sixth century CE in Ujjaini (modern-day Ujjain), Madhya Pradesh.
In his work Brihatsamhita, he gave methods for predicting seasonal
rainfall. His predictions of seasonal rainfalls were based on factors,
such as cloud formation, wind patterns, position of stars and the
moon, and other natural phenomena.
How does water
seep through the
surface of the
Earth?

7.4.1 Seepage of water beneath the
Earth
Activity 7.5: Let us investigate

Clay

Sand

Gravel

 Take three transparent, used plastic bottles
of 1 L capacity.
 Cut them in the middle and make a small
hole in the cap of each bottle.
 Keep them inverted and put some clay in
1
2
3
one bottle, sand in the second, and gravel Fig. 7.10: An activity to compare the ﬂow of
in the third, as shown in Fig. 7.10.
water through clay, sand and gravel
 Place three identical beakers below each bottle.
 Add 200 mL of water to each bottle.
 Predict the amount of water ﬂowing out of each bottle.
 Collect the water that ﬂows through each bottle for 10 minutes.
 Compare the amount of water that comes through each
bottle.
Table 7.5: Seepage of water
Bottles
ﬁlled with

Prediction

Observation

Seepage of water
(very slow/slow/fast)

Seepage of water
(very slow/slow/fast)

Bottle 1 (Clay)
Bottle 2 (Sand)
Bottle 3 (Gravel)

Open
spaces

Gravel
Soil

Fig. 7.11: Water readily
moves, and is stored where
spaces are wide, open and
connected

Do your ﬁndings match with your predictions?
You may have observed that water seeps fastest through
gravel, slower through sand, and slowest through clay. Why
is it so? The spaces between gravel particles are wider when
compared to those in sand and clay. Hence, water can seep
through the gravel more easily. In this way, water seeps
beneath the surface of the Earth. This process of surface water
seeping through soil and rocks is called inﬁltration. Water
can inﬁltrate more readily if the spaces between soil and
rock particles are wider, open, and interconnected (Fig. 7.11).
The water that seeps through gets stored in the pore spaces
of sediments and the openings in rocks beneath the surface
as groundwater. The underground layers of sediments and
rocks that store water in pore spaces are called aquifers
(Fig. 7.12). This is the water we extract by digging wells or
drilling bore wells into aquifers. This water may be a few
metres to hundreds of metres below the ground, depending
on the location.

Rain

Curiosity | Textbook of Science | Grade 7

Well
Inﬁltration

Aquifer
Fig. 7.12: Aquifer

However, groundwater is not unlimited. The growing water
requirements of an increasing population have led to excessive
groundwater extraction. Additionally, decreased vegetation cover
and increased concrete surfaces in urban areas have limited
water inﬁltration. As a result, groundwater is getting depleted.
To address this, rainwater harvesting and recharge pits are used
to replenish groundwater. Hence, the water cycle ensures that
groundwater sources are recharged, thereby helping to ensure a
sustainable groundwater supply.

Since water scarcity makes life diﬃcult, people have
developed diﬀerent ways to conserve water. For example, in
Ladakh, people have developed innovative ways to conserve
water by making ice stupas (Fig. 7.13) during the winters.

SCIENCE AND SOCIETY
Ice Stupa

During the spring season in
Ladakh, streams often dry
up, leading to scarcity of
water as the heat from the
Sun’s radiation is not enough
to melt the snow on the
mountains. During winters,
water
from
mountain
streams is channeled down
through underground pipes.
This water is then sprayed
into the cold air. As it falls, it
Fig. 7.13: Ice stupa
freezes due to extremely low
temperatures.
The ice builds up layer by layer, creating a tall, cone-shaped
structure called an ice stupa as shown in Fig. 7.13. The ice stupa
melts slowly during spring, providing water for farming and other
needs throughout the summer.

Heat Transfer in Nature

101

In a Nutshell
 There are three ways in which heat is transferred from one
place to another — conduction, convection, and radiation.
 The process of heat transfer from the hotter part of an object
to a colder part is called conduction. In this process, particles
do not move from their positions.
 Materials that allow heat to pass through them easily are
called good conductors of heat.
 Materials that do not allow heat to pass through them easily
are called poor conductors (insulators) of heat.
 In solids, heat is mainly transferred through the process of
conduction. In liquids and gases, heat is transferred by the
process of convection.

 In convection, heat transfer takes place by the actual
movement of particles. Land and sea breezes are examples
of the process of convection.
 Heat from the Sun reaches the Earth through radiation.
 All objects exchange heat with their surroundings through
the process of radiation.
 Processes of conduction and convection require a medium
for heat transfer but no medium is required for the radiation
process.
 The principles of heat transfer are utilised in designing
houses and clothing.
 The continuous movement of water — upward as water
vapour and downward through precipitation, passing
through soil, rocks and plants, and ﬁnally returning to water
bodies, is called water cycle.
 The process of surface water seeping through soil and rocks
is called inﬁltration.
 Groundwater is the water that seeps through and gets stored
in the pore spaces of sediments and the openings in rocks
beneath the surface.
 The underground layers of sediments and rocks that store
water in pore spaces are called aquifers.

ENQUIRY

?
WHY

WHAT IF
W
H
E
N

WHERE
H
O
W
L
O
N
G
WE
HL
AS
TE

WHAT
COULD
W
H
I
C
H

?

CAN
IT

WHOSE

WHAT WILL
HAPPEN

WHY
NOT

Let Us Enhance Our Learning

WHAT
SHOULD

Curiosity | Textbook of Science | Grade 7

1. Choose the correct option in each case.
(i) Your father bought a saucepan made of two diﬀerent
materials, A and B, as shown in Fig. 7.14. The materials
A and B have the following properties —

B

A

(a) Both A and B are good conductors of heat
(b) Both A and B are poor conductors of heat
(c) A is a good conductor and B is a poor conductor of
Fig. 7.14: Saucepan
heat
(d) A is a poor conductor and B is a good conductor of
Pin Metal
Stand
heat
strip
(ii) Pins are stuck to a metal strip with wax and a burning
candle is kept below the rod, as shown in Fig. 7.15. Which
IV III II I
of the following will happen?
Burning
candle

Fig. 7.15: Heat
transfer set-up

(a) All the pins will fall almost at the same time
(b) Pins I and II will fall earlier than pins III and IV
(c) Pins I and II will fall later than pins III and IV
(d) Pins II and III will fall almost at the same time

(iii) A smoke detector is a device that detects smoke and
sounds an alarm. Suppose you are ﬁtting a smoke
detector in your room. The most suitable place for this
device will be:
(a) Near the ﬂoor
(b) In the middle of a wall
(c) On the ceiling
(d) Anywhere in the room
2. A shopkeeper serves you cold lassi in a tumbler. By chance,
the tumbler had a small leak. You were given another tumbler
by the shopkeeper to put the leaky tumbler in it. Will this
arrangement help to keep the lassi cold for a longer time?
Explain.
3. State with reason(s) whether the following statements are
True [T] or False [F].
(i) Heat transfer takes place in solids through
convection. [ ]
(ii) Heat transfer through convection takes place by the
actual movement of particles. [ ]
(iii) Areas with clay materials allow more seepage of water
than those with sandy materials. [ ]
(iv) The movement of cooler air from land to sea is called
land breeze. [ ]
4. Some ice cubes placed in a dish melt into water after
sometime. Where do the ice cubes get heat for this
transformation?
5. A burning incense stick is ﬁxed, pointing downwards. In
which direction would the smoke from the incense stick
move? Show the movement of smoke with a diagram.
6. Two test tubes with water are heated by a candle ﬂame as
shown in Fig. 7.16. Which thermometers (Fig. 7.16a or
Fig. 7.16b) will record a higher temperature? Explain.

INNOVATION

Heat Transfer in Nature

103

DISCOVERY

ENQUIRY

EXPLORATION

CURIOSITY

Thermometer
Thermometer
Water
Water
Burning
candle
Fig. 7.16(a)

Burning
candle
Fig. 7.16(b)

Fig. 7.16: Two thermometers dipped in two test tubes

7. Why are hollow bricks used to construct the outer walls of
houses in hot regions?
8. Explain how large water bodies prevent extreme temperature
in areas around them.
9. Explain how water seeps through the surface of the Earth
and gets stored as groundwater.
10. The water cycle helps in the redistribution and replenishment
of water on the Earth. Justify the statement.

Disciplinary

Exploratory Projects

History

Art

Technology

Economy

 Activity: Tightly wrap a thin paper strip around a metallic
rod. Try to burn the paper with a candle while rotating
the rod continuously. Does the paper burn? Explain your
observations.
 Activity: Take a sheet of paper. Draw a spiral on it, as shown in
Fig. 7.17a. Cut the paper along the spiral. Suspend the paper
as shown in the Fig. 7.17b above a burning candle. Observe
what happens. Provide an explanation for your observation.

Inter

Society

Curiosity | Textbook of Science | Grade 7

Geography

 Society: Visit a site of water harvesting or a recharge pit.
Find out from people how they are constructed and how
they work. Prepare a report with illustrations.

Fig. 7.17(a): Cutting paper
in spiral

Fig. 7.17(b): Spiral paper
above a burning candle


