4

The World of Metals
and Non-metals

Yashwant and Anandi live in a village in Rajasthan. Their school
has assigned them a project to learn about craftspersons who
work with metals. They decide to visit the local ironsmiths who
practise this craft. Yashwant and Anandi request their grandfather
to accompany them (Fig. 4.1). They are curious to learn how these
ironsmiths make diﬀerent items of daily use. They interact with
an elderly craftsperson, Sudarshan uncle.
Yashwant: Which items do you generally make?
Sudarshan: Generally, we make items of daily use, such as ﬂat
pans (tawas), buckets (baltis), tongs (chimtas), and farming tools
like spades (phawras), axes (kulhadis), trowels (khurpis), and
rakes (jelees).
Anandi: What materials are they made of?

Fig. 4.1: Ironsmith making various items

Chapter 4.indd 41

4/3/2025 4:52:08 PM

Sudarshan: We use iron metal to make these items. We also use
wood to prepare handles wherever required. Additionally, we
use coal in our furnaces to heat the iron.
Sudarshan is heating an iron block in the furnace. It has become
red hot. He starts beating it hard with a hammer.
Anandi is amazed and asks, “Why are you beating it?”
Sudarshan: I am beating it to shape it into an axe.
Anandi: Wow, a piece of iron can be beaten into a ﬂat shape! Can
we do this with other metals as well?
You may also have many such questions — let us explore what
else we can do with metals.

4.1 Properties of Materials
4.1.1 Malleability
Activity 4.1: Let us explore
Caution — Conduct this activity under the supervision of your teacher
or an adult.

Curiosity | Textbook of Science | Grade 7

 Collect some waste pieces of copper and aluminium, an iron
nail, a piece of coal, a pea-sized lump of sulfur (gandhak),
and a block of wood.
 Recall the chapter ‘Materials Around Us’ in the Grade 6
Science textbook Curiosity and observe the appearances of
the above items. Are they lustrous? Also, note whether they
are hard or soft and record your observations in Table 4.1.
 Now, place each of these
items one by one on any
hard surface and beat them
with a hammer (Fig. 4.2).
 What do you think will
happen? Do the objects
become slightly ﬂattened or
do they break into pieces?
 Record your observations in
Table 4.1.

Fig. 4.2: Beating an iron nail with a hammer

42

Chapter 4.indd 42

4/3/2025 4:52:08 PM

Table 4.1: Appearance, hardness, and eﬀect of hammering on diﬀerent
objects or materials

S.No.

Object/Material

1.

Piece of copper

2.

Piece of aluminium

3.

Iron nail

4.

Piece of coal

5.

Lump of sulfur
(pea-sized)

6.

Block of wood

Appearance
(lustrous/
non-lustrous)

Hard/Soft

Effect of hammering
(ﬂattens/breaks into
pieces)

The World of Metals and Non-metals

43

Analyse Table 4.1. Identify the objects that are lustrous in
appearance and hard. You might have observed that objects made
from copper, aluminium, and iron are lustrous in appearance
and are hard. Lustre shown by metals is known as metallic
lustre. Materials like copper, aluminium, and iron are known as
metals, whereas, coal, sulfur, and wood are non-lustrous and
not as hard as metals.
Are all metals hard and solid? Not really; some metals like
sodium and potassium are so soft that they can be cut with a
knife. There is one metal, mercury, that is found in a liquid state at
room temperature, which you might have seen in thermometers.
Recall the chapter ‘Temperature and its Measurement’ from the
Grade 6 Science textbook Curiosity.
Which objects did you ﬁnd become ﬂat on beating with a
hammer?
You must have observed that objects such as a piece of copper,
an iron nail, and a piece of aluminium become ﬂat when beaten;
whereas other objects or materials behave diﬀerently. This
property by which materials can be beaten into thin sheets is
called malleability. Most metals possess this property. Can you
give some examples of metal sheets? You might have seen thin
silver foil on some sweets and aluminium foil used for wrapping
food items. These are formed due to their malleability. Gold and
silver are the most malleable metals.

Chapter 4.indd 43

4/3/2025 4:52:08 PM

A piece of coal or a lump of sulfur does not show this behaviour.
They break into pieces and are said to be brittle. On the other
hand, wood neither gets ﬂattened into a sheet nor breaks into
pieces. Therefore, wood is neither malleable nor brittle.

HOLISTIC LENS

The impact of iron on the progress of civilisation of India
In the Grade 6 Social Science textbook Exploring Society India and
Beyond, you learnt about the Harappans. They knew how to use
metals like copper and gold. They used these metals to make various
objects, from utensils to jewellery. However, you would hardly ﬁnd
any evidence of the Harappans using a very prominent metal iron,
which you see a lot around you today. This is because it took a long
time before iron was used in day-to-day activities.
However, once the use of iron gained prominence in the times that
followed, it contributed signiﬁcantly to the progress of civilisation in
India. For instance, due to its strength, agricultural tools like ploughs
made from iron were much superior to those used previously.
What could be the potential reason that it is generally considered
that copper was discovered earlier as compared to iron?

Curiosity | Textbook of Science | Grade 7

4.1.2 Ductility
Where do you ﬁnd the use of metal wires?
You might have seen wires of metals like copper or aluminium
in electrical ﬁttings. Some ornaments, like bangles, necklaces,
earrings, etc., are also made from metal wires. Metal wires play
important functions in a variety of stringed musical instruments,
such as veena, sitar, violin, and guitar.
This property of materials by which they can be drawn into
wires is called ductility.
This property of ductility is mainly possessed by metals.
Gold is so ductile
that one gram of it
can be drawn into a
2 kilometre-long wire!

The ductile nature
metals enables for
the creation of
this tea strainer
with metal wire.

of

44

Chapter 4.indd 44

4/3/2025 4:52:11 PM

Have you ever seen wires made of coal or sulfur? Obviously
not! We can say that coal and sulfur are not ductile.
Do you know that ropes made of steel [a mixture
of metal (iron) and non-metal (carbon)] wires can
support heavy loads? Therefore, they are used in
suspension bridges and in cranes to lift heavy objects.

EEPER
DIVE

The World of Metals and Non-metals

45

Suspension bridge

4.1.3 Sonority
Have you ever noticed the sound produced when a metal spoon,
or a metal plate, or a metal coin is dropped on the ﬂoor? How is it
diﬀerent from the sound produced when a piece of coal or wood
is dropped on the ﬂoor?

Activity 4.2: Let us investigate
Caution — Be careful while dropping the
objects.

I use the diﬀerence in
sound when my stick
hits wood or metal to
help ﬁnd my way.

 Take a few objects, such as a metal
spoon, a coin, a piece of coal, and
a block of wood.

 Drop them one by one from a certain height.
 Do you notice any diﬀerence in the sound
produced by these objects?

Chapter 4.indd 45

4/3/2025 4:52:13 PM

You would observe that the metal spoon and the metal coin
produce a ringing sound. Coal and wood, on the other hand,
produce dull sounds.
This property of metals that enables them to produce a ringing
sound is called sonority, and metals are said to be sonorous in
nature.

Now, I understand!
The ringing sound
of the school bell is
due to the sonority
of metals.

Oh! The ringing sound
of my ghungroos
is also due to the
sonority of metals.

4.1.4 Conduction of heat
Have you ever observed the vessels used for cooking in the
kitchen? You might have noticed that the vessels used for heating
are made of metals. Can you name some metals that are used for
making cooking vessels? Do you know why these metals are used
for this purpose?
Let us ﬁnd out!

Activity 4.3: Let us investigate

Curiosity | Textbook of Science | Grade 7

Caution — This activity must be performed under the supervision of
your teacher or an adult. Be careful while handling hot water.
Metal
spoon

 Place a glass tumbler on a table.
Wooden
spoon

 Fill it with hot water.
 Take a metal spoon and a wooden
spoon of almost the same size and
thickness.
 Immerse
both
the
spoons
simultaneously into the hot water
(Fig. 4.3) and leave them undisturbed
for a few minutes.

Fig. 4.3: Metal and wooden spoons
immersed in hot water

 Now, carefully touch the upper end
of each spoon.

46

Chapter 4.indd 46

4/3/2025 4:52:14 PM

Some discussion points:
 Which of the spoons get hotter?
 What does this experiment tell us about heat transfer along
the two spoons?
You may have noticed that the metal spoon is hotter to touch
than the wooden spoon. Even though both spoons are immersed
in the water of the same temperature and for the same time. This
shows that the heat transfers through the metal spoon, making it
hotter. In contrast, the wooden spoon transfers heat poorly.
In such cases, the transfer of heat from one point to another
of a material is called conduction, and materials that transfer
heat are called conductors.
Based on the observations, one can say that metals are good
conductors of heat, whereas wood is a poor conductor of heat.
Now, we can understand why mostly metal vessels are used
for cooking, and their handles are made with wood or other
materials that do not conduct heat. You will learn more about
this in the chapter ‘Heat Transfer in Nature’.

The World of Metals and Non-metals

47

4.1.5 Conduction of electricity
Have you ever seen an electrician using a screwdriver? What
type of material is used for making its handle? You may have
also noticed the electrician wearing rubber gloves and shoes
while working. What can be the reason for this?
Activity 4.4: Let us design and create
Design an electric circuit, like the ‘tester’ circuit in the chapter
‘Electricity: Circuits and their Components’. Repeat the same
activity using the materials listed below and record your
observations in Table 4.2.
 You may collect a few objects, such as a piece of aluminium
foil, an iron nail, a lump of sulfur (pea-sized), a copper wire,
a piece of coal, a piece of dry wood, a stone, an eraser made
of rubber and a piece of nylon rope.
 Predict which of these could make the bulb of the tester
glow and which could not.

Chapter 4.indd 47

4/3/2025 4:52:14 PM

Table 4.2: Conduction of electricity by diﬀerent objects or materials
S.No.
1.

Piece of
aluminium foil

2.

Iron nail

3.
4.

Curiosity | Textbook of Science | Grade 7

Object/Material

Observation
(bulb glows/does
not glow)

Good conductor of
electricity or poor
conductor of electricity

Lump of sulfur

(pea-sized)
…

You might have observed that objects made of aluminium,
iron, and copper make the bulb glow, whereas sulfur, coal,
wood, stone, eraser, and nylon rope could not make it glow. Do
you see any pattern in the glowing of bulbs when using diﬀerent
materials in Activity 4.4? It is observed that all the materials that
make the bulb glow are metals.
Materials that allow electricity to ﬂow through them easily
are called good conductors of electricity. In contrast, materials
that prevent the bulb from glowing by not allowing electricity to
pass through them are called poor conductors of electricity.
So, now we can understand that the plastic covering on
screwdrivers and rubber gloves protect the electrician from
electric shock because these materials are poor conductors of
electricity.
We learnt that metals are generally hard, lustrous, malleable,
ductile, and good conductors of heat and electricity. Now, let us
learn how metals behave in the presence of air and water.

4.2 Eﬀect of Air and Water on Metals: Iron
You would have often noticed that iron objects develop brown
deposits when left in the open for a few days. In which conditions
would an iron object develop brown deposits?
 When it comes into contact with dry air only.
 When it comes into contact with water only.
 When it comes into contact with both air and water.

48

Chapter 4.indd 48

4/3/2025 4:52:14 PM

49

Caution — Be careful while handling iron nails.

 Take a few shining iron nails. If you are using old iron
nails, make sure to remove brown deposits from their
surface by scrubbing them with the help of a small
piece of sandpaper.

A

 Take three clean, dry glass bottles or test tubes with
tight-ﬁtting caps or stoppers. Label them A, B, and C.
 Take three iron nails and tie each iron nail with a thread.
 Place one iron nail and some silica gel in the glass bottle
‘A’, and tighten the cap or stopper (Fig. 4.4a). Silica gel
makes the air dry. It is the substance that is used in
small pouches in some medicine bottles, water bottles,
shoe boxes, etc., to keep them dry.
 Place one iron nail in the glass bottle ‘B’. Pour freshly
boiled and cooled water (to remove dissolved gases)
into it until the iron nail is completely dipped in it. Now,
pour some oil to form a layer over the surface of the
water (Fig. 4.4b). The layer of oil on the surface of the
water prevents the air from dissolving in the water. Cap
the glass bottle tightly.
 Place one iron nail in the glass bottle ‘C’, and pour some
water so that the iron nail is partially dipped. Keep this
glass bottle unstoppered. This allows the iron nail to
come into contact with both water and air, as shown in
Fig. 4.4c.
 Place all the glass bottles undisturbed at room
temperature and observe the changes for 8 – 10 days.

Thread
Iron nail

Fig. 4.4(a)

B

Silica gel

Thread
Oil

The World of Metals and Non-metals

Activity 4.5: Let us experiment

Iron nail
Fig. 4.4(b)

C

Water

Thread
Iron nail
Water

Fig. 4.4(c)
Fig. 4.4: Glass bottles
containing iron nails

 Record your observations in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: Formation of brown deposit on iron nails
Glass
Bottle
A

Conditions
Presence of water
(Yes/No)

Presence of air
(Yes/No)

No

Yes

Observations

B
C

Chapter 4.indd 49

4/3/2025 4:52:14 PM

What can you conclude from this experiment?
It is observed in glass bottles A and B that the iron nails do not
show any brown deposits. What does this observation indicate?
This indicates that brown deposits or discolouration on the iron
nails do not develop when the iron nail is kept in dry air alone
(bottle A) or water alone (bottle B). However, in glass bottle C, the
iron nail shows the presence of brown deposits. This indicates that
the presence of both water and air is essential for these deposits
to develop. Thus, moist air is responsible for the development of
brown deposits on objects made of iron. This brown deposit is
called rust. The process of formation of rust on objects made of
iron is called rusting.
Many other metals also exhibit discolouration when kept open
in the atmosphere. Have you noticed the formation of a green
coating on the surface of copper objects or a black coating on the
surface of silver objects? Gradual deterioration of metal surfaces
caused by air, water, or other substances is known as corrosion.
Do you know that rusting of iron is a serious problem in our
country? Every year, an enormous amount of money is spent to
replace or repair iron structures damaged due to rusting.
The rusting of iron can be prevented by several methods such
as painting, oiling, greasing, and applying a protective layer of
zinc metal on iron (galvanisation). We will learn about this in
higher grades.

Curiosity | Textbook of Science | Grade 7

FASCINATING FACTS

The wonder of ancient Indian metallurgy!
The Iron Pillar of Delhi was made in the time of
Chandragupta II more than 1600 years ago. It is about
8 metres high and weighs more than 6000 kilograms.
What is interesting about this iron pillar is that despite
all these years of facing winds, rainfall, and intense
weather, it has barely any rust.
In other words, it has been made in
a way that it resists rusting. This tells us
about the skills that were developed in
metal technology in India.
The Iron Pillar (Delhi)

50

Chapter 4.indd 50

4/3/2025 4:52:15 PM

51

The World of Metals and Non-metals

4.3 Eﬀect of Air and Water on Other
Metals
Activity 4.6: Let us investigate (demonstration activity)
The teacher may demonstrate this activity.

Caution — It is advisable for students to wear protective eyeglasses
and keep safe distance.

 Take a magnesium ribbon about
3 – 4 centimetres long. Clean
it by rubbing with a piece of
sandpaper.
 Hold it with a pair of tongs.
Ignite the other end using a
spirit lamp or a candle (Fig. 4.5).
 Let the magnesium ribbon burn.
 What do you observe?

Fig. 4.5: Burning magnesium ribbon

 You must have observed that
magnesium ribbon burns with a dazzling white ﬂame and
changes into a white powder. Collect it on a watch glass. This
powder is magnesium oxide. It is formed due to the reaction
between magnesium and oxygen present in the air.

 Add a few drops of warm water to this white powder, stir it
well, and check its nature.
 Recall the chapter ‘Exploring Substances: Acidic, Basic, and
Neutral’. Find out whether the solution of magnesium oxide
is acidic or basic or neutral in nature. You can use any
acid-base indicator.
 What eﬀect does this solution have
on blue and red litmus papers?
You would observe that it changes
the colour of red litmus paper to blue
(Fig. 4.6); hence, it is basic in nature.
Generally, oxides of metals are basic in
nature.
We will discuss this burning of
magnesium ribbon further in the
chapter ‘Changes Around Us: Physical
and Chemical’.

Chapter 4.indd 51

Blue litmus
paper
Red litmus
paper

Watch
glass
Fig. 4.6: Testing the nature of
magnesium oxide

4/3/2025 4:52:16 PM

Do you know that sodium is a metal which is stored in kerosene
because it reacts vigorously with oxygen and water. A lot of heat
is generated in the reaction. Storing sodium in kerosene prevents
its exposure to moisture and air. Can you predict the nature of
its oxide?
Let us now discuss some substances that do not behave like
metals.

4.4 Substances that Behave Diﬀerently
from Metals in Air and Water
Activity 4.7: Let us experiment (demonstration activity)
The teacher may demonstrate this activity.

Curiosity | Textbook of Science | Grade 7

Fig. 4.7(a): Deﬂagrating
spoon

Fig. 4.7(b): Improvised
deﬂagrating spoon

Caution — This activity must be performed in a fume hood
or well-ventilated area. Burning sulfur produces gases, which
can be harmful if inhaled.

 Take a small amount of powdered sulfur in a
deﬂagrating spoon (it is a long-handled metal
spoon used in experiments to safely heat and burn
substances Fig. 4.7a). If a deﬂagrating spoon is not
available, you may take a metallic cap of any bottle,
wrap a metallic wire around it and give it the shape
as shown in Fig. 4.7b.
 Heat it on a ﬂame, and as soon as the sulfur starts
burning, introduce the deﬂagrating spoon into a
gas jar or glass tumbler (Fig. 4.7c). Cover the gas jar
or glass tumbler with a lid to ensure that the gas
produced does not escape.
 Remove the lid after 3 – 4 minutes and take out the
deﬂagrating spoon. Add a small quantity of water
into the gas jar, quickly place the lid back and shake
it so that the gas dissolves.

Sulfur

 Again, recall the chapter ‘Exploring Substances:
Acidic, Basic, and Neutral’. Using an acid-base
Gas jar
indicator, check whether the solution obtained
after the addition of water to the gas jar is acidic or
basic or neutral.
 What do you observe?

Fig. 4.7(c): Burning of sulfur

52

Chapter 4.indd 52

4/3/2025 4:52:17 PM

Red litmus
paper

Watch glass

Fig. 4.7(d): Testing of solution with
litmus papers

 Take some sulfur powder in a glass tumbler.
 Add a small amount of water to it.
 What do you observe?
You may have noticed that there is no reaction when sulfur is
placed in water.
Substances like sulfur and phosphorus behave diﬀerently
with air and water than metals. Phosphorus is stored in water
as it catches ﬁre when exposed to atmospheric air. These
substances are usually soft and dull in appearance. They are
neither malleable nor ductile, and they are not sonorous. They
are also poor conductors of heat and electricity. These are called
non-metals. Their oxides are acidic in nature.
Some other non-metals are oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, carbon,
etc. These must not be confused with materials such as plastic,
glass, wood, rubber, and paper. These materials are not classiﬁed
as metals or non-metals because they are not elements.
Metals and non-metals are sub-categories of
substances called elements. An element is a substance
that cannot be broken down into simpler substances.
Presently 118 elements are known. These
elements are the basic building blocks of all matter.
Some are naturally occurring, while others are
artiﬁcially made in the laboratory, and do not exist
in nature. You will study more about elements in
higher grades.

The World of Metals and Non-metals

Blue litmus
paper

You would observe that it is acidic in
nature (Fig. 4.7d).
On burning sulfur in air (oxygen),
sulfur dioxide gas is formed. On dissolving
sulfur dioxide gas in water, sulfurous acid
is formed.
Does sulfur behave in water the same
way metals do?

Activity 4.8: Let us explore

53

EEPER
DIVE

4.5 Are Non-metals Essential in
Everyday Life?
You often observe many metals in your day-to-day lives because
of their distinct properties, such as their lustrous nature, heat

Chapter 4.indd 53

4/3/2025 4:52:18 PM

and electrical conductivity, and high strength. However, this
should not give an impression in your mind that non-metals are
not important in our lives.
We breathe in oxygen, which is a non-metal, and without it,
we would not be able to survive. Can you think of any other uses
of oxygen?
Carbon is essential in everyday life because it is the building
block of all life forms. It is a key component of proteins, fats, and
carbohydrates, which are necessary for growth and energy.
Nitrogen is used in the manufacturing of fertilisers and other
chemicals. It is an essential nutrient for the growth of plants.
Chlorine is a non-metal commonly used in water puriﬁcation.
A solution of iodine, a non-metal, is applied on wounds as an
antiseptic.

SCIENCE AND SOCIETY

Do you know that many metals and their alloys (mixtures of two or
more metals or a metal and a non-metal) are important for daily use as
utensils and tools. These are also important for modern technologies
and essential in almost every industry. Some special metals are also
used in atomic energy (such as zirconium), aerospace (titanium), etc.
In India, many metals, especially iron and aluminium, are recycled to
minimise waste and contribute to sustainability.

Curiosity | Textbook of Science | Grade 7

In a Nutshell

54

Chapter 4.indd 54

 Metals and non-metals are diﬀerentiated based on their
properties.
 Generally, metals are lustrous, whereas most non-metals are
non-lustrous.
 Metals are generally malleable and ductile, while non-metals
do not have these properties.
 Metals are good conductors of heat and electricity, but
non-metals are generally poor conductors.
 Metals react with oxygen to produce metal oxides which are
basic in nature.
 Non-metals react with oxygen to produce oxides which are
acidic in nature.
 Generally, non-metals do not react with water.
 Metal objects get damaged when exposed to moist air, and
the process is known as corrosion.
 Metals and non-metals have wide applications in
everyday life.

4/3/2025 4:52:19 PM

Let Us Enhance Our Learning
1. Which metal is commonly used to make food packaging
materials as it is cheaper, and its thin sheets can be
folded easily into any shape?
(i) Aluminium
(ii) Copper
(iii) Iron
(iv) Gold
2. Which of the following metal catches ﬁre when it comes
in contact with water?
(i) Copper
(ii) Aluminium
(iii) Zinc
(iv) Sodium
3. State with reason(s) whether the following statements
are True [T] or False [F].
(i) Aluminium and copper are examples of non-metals
used for making utensils and statues. [ ]
(ii) Metals form oxides when combined with oxygen,
the solution of which turns blue litmus paper to
red. [ ]
(iii) Oxygen is a non-metal essential for respiration. [ ]
(iv) Copper vessels are used for boiling water because
they are good conductors of electricity. [ ]
4. Why are only a few metals suitable for making
jewellery?
5. Match the uses of metals and non-metals given in
Column I with the jumbled names of metals and
non-metals given in Column II.
Column I

ENQUIRY

?
WHY

WHAT IF
W
H
E
N
CAN
IT

WHERE
WHAT
COULD

H
O
W

?

L
O
N
G

WHOSE

W
H
I
C
H

WHAT WILL
HAPPEN
WHAT
SHOULD

The World of Metals and Non-metals

55

WE
H L
A S
T E
WHY
NOT

Column II

(i) Used in electrical wiring

(a) E N X Y G O

(ii) Most malleable and ductile

(b) N E C O H I R L

(iii) Living organisms cannot survive without it.

(c) P E P O R C

(iv) Plants grow healthy when fertilisers
containing it are added to the soil.

(d) T E N G O I N R

(v) Used in water puriﬁcation

(e) O G D L

6. What happens when oxygen reacts with magnesium
and sulfur. What are the main diﬀerences in the nature
of products formed?

Chapter 4.indd 55

4/3/2025 4:52:19 PM

7. Complete the following ﬂow chart:
?

Air

Heat

Ash
Water

INNOVATION

?

DISCOVERY

Add blue and red litmus
solutions separately

ENQUIRY

EXPLORATION

Change in blue
litmus solution

Change in red
litmus solution

CURIOSITY

?

Blue

8. You are provided with the following materials. Discuss which
material would be your choice to make a pan that is most
suitable for boiling water and why?

Geography

Technology

copper

sulfur

coal

plastic

wood

cardboard

9. You are provided with three iron nails, each dipped in oil,
water and vinegar. Which iron nail will not rust, and why?
10. How do the diﬀerent properties of metals and non-metals
determine their uses in everyday life?
11. One of the methods of protecting iron from getting rusted is
to put a thin coating of zinc metal over it. Since sulfur does
not react with water, can it be used for this purpose? Justify
your answer.
12. An ironsmith heats iron before making tools. Why is heating
necessary in this process?

Disciplinary
History

Inter

Curiosity | Textbook of Science | Grade 7

Iron

Art

Exploratory Projects

 Dhokra, Bidriware, Pembarthi, and Kamrupi are some of
India’s famous metal art styles. Find out the states where
these artworks are made. Also, make a collage of their
Society
photographs.
 On a map of India, mark the states where iron, gold,
aluminium and other metals are found.
Economy  Explore the metals and non-metals found in smartphones
and ﬁnd out how they help the phone work properly.
 Organise a classroom debate on whether the use of metals
for comfort and luxury should be increased or decreased.

56

Chapter 4.indd 56

4/3/2025 4:52:20 PM

